- [Instructor] Now let's talk about view resolvers
in Spring MVC framework.
We have spoken about this topic over and over
in all our previous videos,
but let's have a quick recap.
Now, when you talk about view resolvers,
they are basically to resolve views, we all know that.
And resolving views, rendering content,
displaying data, all of this is an integral part
of any web MVC framework.
It's not just Spring MVC that is supposed to be doing this,
it's true for any other web MVC framework
that we have around in the market today.
Now when it comes to Spring,
Spring provides a lot of flexibility with view technologies.
If you've seen we have been working
with HPlus application using JavaServer Pages, JSPs,
but Spring has already integrated itself
very well with other view technologies as well.
You can have those templating languages
like Velocity, Thymeleaf, FreeMarker, et cetera,
and Spring works very well with them.
Now, primarily when it comes to view resolvers,
Spring works with two interfaces.
One is view.
So view is the actual view, the content that you
render in the browser, and the data
that you display on it.
One view can have information collected and displayed
across multiple model attributes.
We've already executed use cases where we have taken data
from a model attribute and displayed on the JSP.
So you can have all sorts of information
displayed by multiple model attributes.
So if you, as a part of your design for your application,
want to go ahead and implement your own view,
then you will have to work with this interface.
You'll have to implement this and provide your own logic.
And the other big interface is the ViewResolver.
This is responsible for actually resolving the views
by name, and the view state will never change
during the running of the application.
So implementations are also free to cache views
so that they can be loaded faster the next time
they are rendered in the browser.
Now there are many types of view resolvers.
We have already looked at InternalResourceViewResolver,
which we have heavily used
in order to pick up the JSP templates
from the correct folders in our project structure.
So this is the one that we have been using
to resolve the view names and map them
to their respective JSPs.
Other than that, you can also employ a .properties file
to resolve your views.
That is done by a ResourceBundleViewResolver.
What this means is you go and define all your view names
and map it to the correct JSPs in a .properties file.
And then you employ this bean,
called ResourceBundleViewResolver,
which will pick up all the views and resolve them for you
to render content inside your browser.
Another way of doing it is through XML.
So you have all the necessary view information
defined in the form of an XML file,
and this XML file generally has registrations
of the views in the form of beans, which is a very common
convention with the Spring framework.
So you define all your views in the form of bean tags
in their XML, and then you employ this bean,
called XmlViewResolver so that your views are resolved
to that XML file.
Additionally, you also have VelocityViewResolver,
FreeMarkerViewResolver, and these are very specific
to the Velocity and FreeMarker templating languages.
So Spring has got a host of view resolvers present,
this is not the exhaustive list of course.
These are the ones that we should know of,
and in the next videos, we are going to resolve views
through a resource bundle, that is in a properties file,
and we also want to do that using an XML file.